\section{Software used in this project}

Modern astrodynamics and orbital mechanics require the use of numerical routines
and software. In this project, the following software were used:
\href{https://github.com/poliastro/poliastro}{poliastro} and
\href{https://www.ansys.com/products/missions/ansys-stk}{Ansys Systems Tool Kit
(STK)}.

poliastro is an open-source Python library for astrodynamics. It provides tools
focused on the analysis and design of orbits. It is built on top of other
popular libraries such us \href{https://github.com/astropy/astropy}{Astropy} and
\href{https://github.com/numpy/numpy}{NumPy}. Despite poliastro being archived,
the author is a former maintainer of the project. This allowed him to build a
set of custom numerical routines and improvements on top of the original source
code.

Main capabilities used from poliastro include the generation of scientific
figures for visualizing orbits, ephemerides, and porkchop plots. For these last
figures, their original source code was parallelized to maximize the
performance, reducing computation times.

\vspace{1cm}
\begin{figure}[H] \centering
        \includegraphics[width=0.75\textwidth]{static/poliastro_capabilities.png}
        \caption[A collection of use cases of poliastro.]{A collection of use
        cases of poliastro. Examples include orbit plotting in 2D and 3D,
        perturbations, and porkchop plots.} 
        \label{fig:poliastro_capabilities}
\end{figure}

STK, on the other hand, is a commercial software that provides a set of tools
that extend beyong astrodynamic calculations. It is used for mission analysis,
allowing customers to design, analyze, and visualize complex systems. Its
outstanding performance, accuracy, visualization, and animation capabilities
make this tool a standard in the aerospace industry.

Main capabilities used from STK include validation of results and animations.
Regarding animations, these are presented in the slides acompanying the defense
of this project.

\vspace{1cm}
\begin{figure}[H] \centering
        \includegraphics[width=0.75\textwidth]{static/stk_capabilities.png}
        \caption[A collection of use cases of STK.]{A collection of use
        cases of STK. Examples include orbit plotting in 3D, cislunar
        trajectories, and orbit transfer optimization.} 
        \label{fig:stk_capabilities}
\end{figure}


