\section{Discovered objects}

It was not until 2017 when the first interstellar object was discovered. The
object, initially named 1I/2017 U1, is known today as 1I/'Oumuamua. Two years
later, in 2019, the second interstellar object was discovered. The object was
beleived to be a comet and was named C/2019 Q4. After confirming its ISO nature,
today the object is know as 2I/Borisov. 

Despite having a common interstellar origin, both objects presented different
properties. These properties are presented and discussed in the following
subsections. For a more detailed analysis of the objects and their properties,
the reader is encouraged to review the article by \cite{jewitt2023}.

\subsection{1I/'Oumuamua}

'Oumuamua was discovered on October 19, 2017, by the Pan-STARRS1 telescope in
Hawaii. It was first classified as a comet under the identifier of C/2017 U1,
but later reclassified as an an asteroid.

Its eccentricity was calculated to be around $1.20$, thus showing an hyperbolic
orbit. Its velocity was calculated to be close to $26.0$ km/s. Finally, it
entered the solar system with a direction $\alpha_{\text{ICRS}},\;
\delta_{\text{ICRS}} = 279^\circ.804,\; +33^\circ.997$, an inclination far from
the invariant plane of the solar system and close to the solar apex, see
\cite{mamajek2017}. All these attributes are consistent with an interstellar
origin, as exposed in subsection \ref{sec:expected_orbit_attributes}. Table
\ref{tab:oumuamua_elements} summarizes the orbit elements of 'Oumuamua as of
November 23, 2017.

\begin{table}[H]
  \centering
  \begin{tabular}{|c|c|}
    \hline
    Element & Value \\
    \hline
    Eccentricity ($e$) & 1.20 \\
    Semi-major axis ($a$) & -1.27 au \\
    Perihelion ($q$) & 0.26 au \\
    Inclination ($i$) & 122.74 deg \\
    Longitude of the ascending node ($\Omega$) & 24.59 deg \\
    Argument of perihelion ($\omega$) & 241.81 deg \\
    Mean anomaly ($M$) & 51.16 deg \\
    Mean motion ($n$) & 0.69 deg/d \\
    Time of perihelion passage ($T_p$) & 2017-Sep-09.50732138 \\
    \hline
  \end{tabular}
  \caption{Orbit elements of 1I/'Oumuamua as provided by the NASA SBDB.}
  \label{tab:oumuamua_elements}
\end{table}

Surprisingly, this first discovered ISO presented a non-gravitational
acceleration that could not be attributed to cometary properties. In addition,
observations could not determine jetting of particles, an effect experienced by
cometary objects.

'Oumuamua's shape was also a matter of debate. Due to its size, the interloper
appeared as a single point in all telescope images, like the one reproduced in
figure \ref{fig:oumuamua_shape}. At first, it was estimated to have a cigar-like
body. However, later studies solved the best fititng shape that matched the
observed lightcurves. The results indicate that 'Oumuamua should have a planar
disk shape, see \cite{seligman2022}.

Unfortunately, 'Oumuamua was discovered after its pasage through the perihelion
and could only be observed for about four weeks before becoming to faint. This
limited the amount of data that could be gathered about the object, increasing
the mistery about the first interstellar object.

\begin{figure}[H]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=0.95\textwidth]{static/oumuamua/shape.png}
\caption['Oumuamua as seen by the ESO's Very Large Telescope and the Gemini South Telescope]{
  1I/'Oumuamua as seen by the ESO's Very Large Telescope and the Gemini South Telescope. This image was
  released on September 9, 2023. It shows a combination of images taken by the two
  telecopes. The object is seen as a point in the center of the image. Background
  stars are seen as streaks due to the telescope's tracking of the object. No
  cometary tail or mass ejection is observed, raising questions about the non-gravitational
  acceleration presented by the interloper.
  }
  \label{fig:oumuamua_shape}
\end{figure}

\subsection{2I/Borisov}

Borisov was discovered on August 30, 2019, by Gennady Borisov\footnote{Borisov
discovered the second interloper using his home-built 0.65 meters
telescope.}, an amateur astronomer from Crimea. It was first classified as
a comet under the identifier C/2019 Q4, but later reclassified as an
interstellar object once its high eccentricity was computed.

With an eccentricity of $3.36$, it showed a hyperbolic orbit with a velocity of
$32.2$ km/s. These properties together with its inclination of $44.1$ degrees in
the direction of Cassioppeia, made it evident that Borisov came from outside the
solar system. Table \ref{tab:borisov_elements} summarizes the orbit elements of
Borisov as of August 1, 2020.

The main difference with 'Ouamuamua is that Borisov presented a cometary tail.
In fact, the NASA/ESA Hubble Space Telescope was able to capture some images of
this interloper, see figure \ref{fig:borisov_shape}.

The coma of 2I/Borisov was found to contain significantly more carbon monoxide
(CO) than water (H2O) gas, with abundances of at least 173\%, which is more than
three times higher than typical comets in our solar system. Additionally,
hydrogen cyanide (HCN) was also detected in the gas ejected by the comet, with
similar amounts to what is found in other comets in our solar system, see
\cite{bodewits2020}.


\begin{table}[H]
  \centering
  \begin{tabular}{|c|c|}
    \hline
    Element & Value \\
    \hline
    Epoch ($t$) & August 1, 2020 \\
    Eccentricity ($e$) & 3.36 \\
    Semi-major axis ($a$) & -0.85 au \\
    Perihelion ($q$) & 2.01 au \\
    Inclination ($i$) & 44.05 deg \\
    Longitude of the ascending node ($\Omega$) & 308.15 deg \\
    Argument of perihelion ($\omega$) & 209.12 deg \\
    Mean anomaly ($M$) & 296.54 deg \\
    Mean motion ($n$) & 1.25 deg/d \\
    Time of perihelion passage ($T_p$) & 2019-Dec-08.54507021 \\
    \hline
  \end{tabular}
  \caption{Orbit elements of 2I/Borisov as provided by the NASA SBDB.}
  \label{tab:borisov_elements}
\end{table}

\begin{figure}[H]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=0.95\textwidth]{static/borisov/shape.jpg}
\caption[Borisov as seen by the NASA/ESA Hubble Space Telescope]{
  2I/Borisov as seen by the NASA/ESA Hubble Space Telescope. This image was
  released on December 12, 2019, when the interloper was close to the Sun. Its
  cometary properties are evident in this image. Borisov's tail is seen as a
faint streak extending from the object. It is believed that the tail is composed
of 
  }
  \label{fig:borisov_shape}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Other interstellar candidates}

The interest in interstellar objects has lead a research on previously
discovered objects, in particular interstellar meteors (IM). Interstellar
meteors are meter-scale objects that collide with Earth from a trajectory that
is gravitationally unbound to the Sun, meaning they originate from outside our
solar system. 

Two confirmed interstellar meteors have been identified so far:

\begin{itemize}
  \item CNEOS 2014-01-08 (also known as IM1 or the Manus Island fireball), which
    was detected in 2014 and confirmed as interstellar in 2022 by the U.S. Space
    Command.
  \item CNEOS 2017-03-09 (also known as IM2), which was discovered in 2022 and is
    estimated to have been 10 times more massive than IM1, around 1 meter in
    size.
\end{itemize}

Both IM1 and IM2 were moving at extremely high speeds relative to the local
standard of rest - IM1 at 60 km/s and IM2 at 40 km/s. This high velocity is a
key indicator of their interstellar origin. Analysis of the meteors' material
strength suggests they were tougher than typical iron meteorites, implying they
may not have originated from a planetary system like our own. Plans are underway
to try and retrieve fragments of these interstellar meteors for further study,
which could provide important insights into their composition and origins, see
\cite{siraj2022discovery}.
