\chapter{Conclusion}

After the direct transfer analysis from Earth in \ref{ch:direct-transfer}, the
direct transfer analysis from L2 in \ref{sec:lagrange-points-analysis}, and a
the gravity assist review in \ref{sec:gravity-assist-analysis}, this chapter
sumarizes all the results and presents the final conclusions.

\section{Summary of results}

Results collected in the previous chapters are summarized in tables
\ref{tab:summary-results-delta-v}, \ref{tab:summary-results-c3-launch} and
\ref{tab:summary-results-delta-v}. A high reduction in the launch energy is
observed when launching from L2 instead of Earth. This reduction is mainly due
to the low escape velocity at L2, which allows for a more efficient transfer.

\vspace{1cm}
\begin{table}[H]
  \centering
  \begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    Object       & $\Delta v$ launch Earth [km/s] & $\Delta v$ launch L2 [km/s] & Reduction [\%] \\
    \hline
    1I/'Oumuamua & 13.85                           & 3.80 & 72.56          \\
    \hline
    2I/Borisov   & 16.90                            & 5.85
          & 65.38          \\
    \hline
  \end{tabular}
  \caption[Comparison of the launch velocity for direct transfers from Earth and
    L2.]{Comparison of the launch velocity for direct transfers from Earth and
        L2. These values are feasible considering modern propulsion technology,
        see \cite{longhurst2021}.}
  \label{tab:summary-results-v-launch}
\end{table}

\vspace{1cm}
\begin{table}[H]
  \centering
  \begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    Object       & $C_3$ launch Earth [km$^2$/s$^2$] & $C_3$ launch L2 [km$^2$/s$^2$] & Reduction [\%] \\
    \hline
    1I/'Oumuamua & 192.00                            & 14.41                          & 92.51          \\
    \hline
    2I/Borisov   & 286.00                            & 34.30                          & 88.08          \\
    \hline
  \end{tabular}
  \caption[Comparison of the launch energy for direct transfers from Earth and
    L2.]{Comparison of the launch energy for direct transfers from Earth and L2. A reduction in energy is observed when launching from L2.}
  \label{tab:summary-results-c3-launch}
\end{table}

\vspace{1cm}
\begin{table}[H]
  \centering
  \begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|c|}
    \hline
    Object       & $\Delta V$ arrival Earth [km/s] & $\Delta V$ arrival L2 [km/s] & Reduction [\%] \\
    \hline
    1I/'Oumuamua & 62.33                            & 61.46 & 1.40          \\
    \hline
    2I/Borisov   & 33.00                            & 33.02 & -0.06          \\
    \hline
  \end{tabular}
  \caption[Comparison of the arrival velocity for direct transfers from Earth and
    L2.]{Comparison of the arrival velocity for direct transfers from Earth and
        L2. Due to the close proximity of L2 to the Earth, the reduction in
        arrival speed is low compared to the reduction in launch energy.}
  \label{tab:summary-results-delta-v}
\end{table}

Leveraging the advantageous position of L2 not only facilitates spacecraft
parking while awaiting the discovery of new ISOs but also augments mission
adaptability. By pre-positioning a spacecraft in space, it affords greater
maneuverability and flexibility in mission planning. This positioning grants
extended reaction time, enabling meticulous mission strategizing and the
optimization of trajectory paths.

It is worth mentioning that the optimum launch dates for 'Oumuamua and Borisov
take place before humanity discovered them. This fact highlights the importance
of increasing the investment in space surveillance and tracking systems. By
doing so, the reaction time to intercept an ISO could be reduced significantly,
allowing for more efficient missions.

Regarding the analysis of gravity assists, it is determined that their
feasibility hinges on several factors. These encompass the relative spatial
configurations of planets during the launch phase, the duration of the mission,
the inclination concerning the ecliptic plane of the ISO, the velocity of the
interloper, and the launch velocity itself. In scenarios ripe with optimism, the
feasibility of executing multiple gravity assists, possibly involving inner
planets, emerges as a promising prospect.

These results mirror the strategic approach undertaken by the Comet Interceptor
mission. The mission advocates for the adoption of a direct external transfer
orbit from L2 in a ready-to-launch state to the interloper, presenting it as an
initial solution to surmount the intricacies associated with interplanetary
transfer challenges.

\section{Future work}

While working on this project, the author noticed a lack of robust software for
optimizing gravity assist trajectories. Trajectory optimization in astrodynamics
is complex, especially when dealing with multiple planetary flybys and impulsive
maneuvers.

Creating software to optimize gravity assist trajectories considering variables
like planetary configurations, time spans, and fuel constraints would be highly
beneficial.

Such software could quickly design an optimal mission to intercept an
Interstellar Object (ISO), helping astrodynamicists overcome challenges like
high relative speeds and inclinations.

Simulating synthetic ISOs could test the software and refine mission plans,
reducing reaction times. When combined with optimization software, the results
could be outstanding.
